apps/docs/guide/get-started.md, before:

# Getting started

Section briefly describes how to configure, build and start the Intake24 components for development and production deployment.

## Prerequisites

- `Git`
- `Node.js` - latest LTS
- `pnpm` package manager
- 4vGB+ free disk space (Or 50GB+ free disk space including downloading and extracting food images and database snapshots)
- `PostgreSQL` and `Redis` instances

Options to set up local `PostgreSQL` and `Redis` instances:

#### Method 1: Docker compose

Execute Docker compose file `docker-compose.yml` to prepare PostgresQL and Redis instances, and map out port 5432 and 6379 respectively by default. More details can be found in [Development using Docker](/guide/docker.md).

#### Method 2: Virtual Machine

Run Dev VM (download from S3 bucket - contact the Intake24 team), which maps out the database on 192.168.56.10:5432 (PostgreSQL). More details can be found in [Development using VM](/guide/vm.md).

#### Method 3: Manual installation

Install `PostgreSQL` and `Redis` manually on your local machine. Refer to the official documentation for [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current) and [Redis](https://redis.io/docs) for installation instructions.

## Development

#### 1. Clone repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/intake24/intake24
```

More details can be found in [Source code](/guide/source-code) for detailed instructions about repository structure.

#### 2. Install pnpm using corepack

```sh
corepack enable

corepack install
```

More details can be found in [Source code -> Dependencies](/guide/source-code#dependencies).

#### 3. Install dependencies

On project root folder, run

```sh
pnpm install
```

#### 4. Spin up Redis and PostgreSQL instance

Make sure `Redis` and `PostgreSQL` instances are running and accessible.

Refer to [Services setup](#services-setup) section for options to set up local `PostgreSQL` and `Redis` instances.

#### 5. Initialise environment files

On project root folder, run below command to build the CLI application under folder using development configuration

```sh
pnpm cli init:env
```

This will create `.env` files under `apps/api`, `apps/cli`, `apps/admin` and `apps/survey` folders.

More details can be found in [CLI -> Initialize .env files](/cli/init-env).

Edit `.env` files as required. More details can be found in [Configuration](/config/) section.

#### 6. Populate system database

On project root folder, run below command

```sh
pnpm cli init:db:system
```

This will populate the system database with defaults. Follow the prompts to set up the admin user account.

More details can be found in [CLI -> Initialize system database](/cli/init-db-system).

#### 7. Run database migrations

Make sure databases are up to date running migration commands under project root folder:

```sh
pnpm db:migrate

# Shortcuts for individual databases

pnpm db:system:migrate
pnpm db:foods:migrate
```

More details can be found in [Database -> migrations](/guide/database#migrations).

#### 8. Download & extract food images

Run the following command and select to download and extract the images:

```sh
pnpm cli init:assets
```

More details can be found in [CLI -> Download assets](/cli/init-assets) and [Database -> Images](/guide/database#images) for more instructions.

#### 9. Start API server

On `apps/api` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The API server should be running on `http://localhost:3100` by default.

#### 10. Start admin tool application

On `apps/admin` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The Intake24 admin tool application should be running on `http://localhost:8100` by default, and you can log in using the admin account created during step 5.

#### 11. Start frontend (survey) application

On `apps/survey` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The Intake24 frontend (survey) application should be running on `http://localhost:8200` by default.

## Production

Instead of running applications in development mode, you can build and start them in production mode.

Build the application

```sh
pnpm build
```

Start the application

```sh
pnpm start
```

:::tip For production, consider environment you plan to use to run the application:

1. Deploying as dedicated service. Refer to your OS environment how to set that up.
2. Use process manager, e.g. [PM2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io)
3. Deploy behind proper http server, e.g. [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com), [Apache](https://www.apache.org) etc.
   :::

Deployment section / ansible scripts provide examples how to use dedicated service on Ubuntu and run it behind Nginx reverse proxy.

Commit message:

feat(cli): improve fetching snapshot files (#429)

apps/docs/guide/get-started.md, after:

# Getting started

Section briefly describes how to configure, build and start the Intake24 components for development and production deployment.

## Prerequisites

- `Git`
- `Node.js` - latest LTS
- `pnpm` package manager
- 4vGB+ free disk space (Or 50GB+ free disk space including downloading and extracting food images and database snapshots)
- `PostgreSQL` and `Redis` instances

Options to set up local `PostgreSQL` and `Redis` instances:

#### Method 1: Docker compose

Execute Docker compose file `docker-compose.yml` to prepare PostgresQL and Redis instances, and map out port 5432 and 6379 respectively by default. More details can be found in [Development using Docker](/guide/docker.md).

#### Method 2: Virtual Machine

Run Dev VM (download from S3 bucket - contact the Intake24 team), which maps out the database on 192.168.56.10:5432 (PostgreSQL). More details can be found in [Development using VM](/guide/vm.md).

#### Method 3: Manual installation

Install `PostgreSQL` and `Redis` manually on your local machine. Refer to the official documentation for [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current) and [Redis](https://redis.io/docs) for installation instructions.

## Development

#### 1. Clone repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/intake24/intake24
```

More details can be found in [Source code](/guide/source-code) for detailed instructions about repository structure.

#### 2. Install pnpm using corepack

```sh
corepack enable

corepack install
```

More details can be found in [Source code -> Dependencies](/guide/source-code#dependencies).

#### 3. Install dependencies

On project root folder, run

```sh
pnpm install
```

#### 4. Spin up Redis and PostgreSQL instance

Make sure `Redis` and `PostgreSQL` instances are running and accessible.

To use Docker compose to start the services, run on project root folder:

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

Refer to
[Development using Docker](docker) and [Development using VM](vm) sections for options to set up local `PostgreSQL` and `Redis` instances.

:::tip

You may also install `PostgreSQL` and `Redis` manually on your local machine. Refer to the official documentation for [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current) and [Redis](https://redis.io/docs) for installation instructions.
:::

#### 5. Initialise environment files

On project root folder, run below command to build the CLI application under folder using development configuration

```sh
pnpm cli init:env
```

This will create `.env` files under `apps/api`, `apps/cli`, `apps/admin` and `apps/survey` folders.

More details can be found in [CLI -> Initialize .env files](/cli/init-env).

Edit `.env` files as required. More details can be found in [Configuration](/config/) section.

#### 6. Populate system database

On project root folder, run below command

```sh
pnpm cli init:db:system
```

This will populate the system database with defaults. Follow the prompts to set up the admin user account.

More details can be found in [CLI -> Initialize system database](/cli/init-db-system).

:::tip
The CLI will interactively prompt if you wish to download fresh assets from cloud storage for the initialization process. This is optional if you are using Docker Compose to start database services. You can also specify your own database snapshot files to restore the system database.
:::

#### 7. Run database migrations

Make sure databases are up to date running migration commands under project root folder:

```sh
pnpm db:migrate

# Shortcuts for individual databases

pnpm db:system:migrate
pnpm db:foods:migrate
```

More details can be found in [Database -> migrations](/guide/database#migrations).

#### 8. Download & extract food images

Run the following command and select to download and extract the images:

```sh
pnpm cli init:assets
```

More details can be found in [CLI -> Download assets](/cli/init-assets) and [Database -> Images](/guide/database#images) for more instructions.

#### 9. Start API server

On `apps/api` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The API server should be running on `http://localhost:3100` by default.

#### 10. Start admin tool application

On `apps/admin` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The Intake24 admin tool application should be running on `http://localhost:8100` by default, and you can log in using the admin account created during step 5.

#### 11. Start frontend (survey) application

On `apps/survey` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The Intake24 frontend (survey) application should be running on `http://localhost:8200` by default.

## Production

Instead of running applications in development mode, you can build and start them in production mode.

Build the application

```sh
pnpm build
```

Start the application

```sh
pnpm start
```

:::tip For production, consider environment you plan to use to run the application:

1. Deploying as dedicated service. Refer to your OS environment how to set that up.
2. Use process manager, e.g. [PM2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io)
3. Deploy behind proper http server, e.g. [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com), [Apache](https://www.apache.org) etc.
   :::

Deployment section / ansible scripts provide examples how to use dedicated service on Ubuntu and run it behind Nginx reverse proxy.
