apps/docs/developer/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting started

## Dev instance

Steps to getting a local instance running

- Setup the database
  - Method 1 (prefered): Execute Docker compose file `docker-compose.yml` to prepare PostgresQL and Redis instances, and map out port 5432 and 6379 respectively by default.
  - Method 2: Run Dev VM (download from S3 bucket - contact the Intake24 team), which maps out the database on 192.168.56.10:5432 (PostgreSQL). Start this VM.
- Obtain up-to-date database snapshots from the intake24 team and import them into a database by scripts or DB tools (e.g. DBeaver). Please check the guidance on [importing database snapshots with DBeaver](https://dbeaver.com/docs/wiki/Backup-Restore/).
- Local servers need to be run for `api`, `admin` and `survey` from each respective folder:
- To start `api` / `admin` / `survey`: `pnpm dev` for live reloads

### Steps to run locally

#### Prerequisites

- Node.js v22.12.0 or newer
- pnpm v9.x or newer
- Docker v29 or newer (for running PostgreSQL 17 and Redis 8 instances)
- 4vGB+ free disk space (Or 50GB+ free disk space including downloading and extracting food images and database snapshots)

#### 1. Git clone Intake24 project

```sh
git clone https://github.com/intake24/intake24.git
```

#### 2. Install node packages for the whole projects

on project root folder, run

```sh
pnpm install
```

#### 3. Spin up Redis and PostgreSQL instance using docker compose

on project root folder, run

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

#### 4. Initialise the CLI application

on project root folder, run below command to build the CLI application under `apps/cli` folder using development configuration

```sh
pnpm cli:dev
```

This will create `.env` file under `apps/cli` folder, and complete the initial setup for the CLI application. You can quite the process after the command finishes.

#### 5. Use CLI tools to create .env files for Intake24 API, Intake24 frontend (SPA), and Intake24 admin tool SPA applications, and populate system database

on project root folder, run below command

```sh
pnpm cli init:env
```

This will create `.env` files under `apps/api`, `apps/admin` and `apps/survey` folders, and populate the system database with default data. You can also use `-f` flag to force overwrite existing `.env` files if any.

```sh
pnpm cli init:db:system
```

This will populate the system database with default data only. Follow the prompts to set up the admin user account.

If the system database snapshot is not-to-date with the codebase, you may need to run database migrations to bring the database schema up-to-date by running below command on project root folder:

```sh
pnpm db:system:migrate
```

#### 6. Start API server

On `apps/api` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The API server should be running on `http://localhost:3100` by default.

#### 7. Start Intake24 admin tool application

On `apps/admin` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The Intake24 admin tool application should be running on `http://localhost:8100` by default, and you can log in using the admin account created during step 5.

#### 8. Start Intake24 frontend (survey) application

On `apps/survey` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The Intake24 frontend (survey) application should be running on `http://localhost:8200` by default.

#### 9. Download food images and place them in the correct folder

Food images are not included in the database snapshots. Run the following command to download and extract the images:

```sh
pnpm cli init:food-images https://storage.googleapis.com/intake24/images/intake24-images-MRC-LIVE-19112025.zip
```

If you have downloaded the image archive to local PC, you can extract to `apps/api/storage/public/images` directly.

:::warning
Please note that currently the image arcihive is quite large (~18GB) and the download may take significant time and disk space.

And to save space, the CLI will remove the download zip file once it is decompressed to the `FS_IMAGES`.
:::

For more information, please check [Download food images](../cli/init-food-images.md).

## Useful tools

- IDE for developing Node, Typescript, npm (Intake24 use `pnpm` as drop-in replacement of npm) and associated tooling (e.g. VS Code)
- Docker, a clean and resource-efficient way to run PostgreSQL and Redis servers locally.
- Virtual Box (v6.x minimum) for running database VM
- Database browser (e.g. DBeaver) for exploring/manipulating PostgreSQL DB.
- Redis

::: tip
Intake24 requires node.js version 16 or newer, please make sure to check your node.js version before continuing.
:::

Clone the [Intake24 version 4 repository on GitHub](https://github.com/intake24/intake24).

Follow the readme instructions in the root of the repository.

## Databases

Please contact the intake24 team for the latest development virtual machine. [Please also check the guidance on using the development virtual machine](https://docs.intake24.org/developer/vm).
Alternatively, obtain database snapshots from the intake24 team and import them into a database browser (e.g. DBeaver). Please check the guidance on [importing database snapshots with DBeaver](https://dbeaver.com/docs/wiki/Backup-Restore/). While using the database snapshots, don't forget to set up your own Redis instance.

To install PostgresQL and Redis instanace using provided setup, go to `docker` folder to start containers in the background by:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

:::tip
The script also run DB script within `docker/init` folder, hence if you may need to grant execution right for the scripts inside this folder.
:::

Please also check the [guideline](/developer/docker) to configure or import database snapshot to PostgreSQL server created using docker.

## API server

Go to `api` and follow instructions in the readme file.

Copy the `.env-template` file to `.env` and change the following settings:

- `JWT_ACCESS_SECRET` — set to any string (security doesn't matter for development purposes), e.g. `verybigsecret`,
- `JWT_REFRESH_SECRET` — same as above but use a different secret,
- `DB_CONNECTION_SSL` - set to `false` for if the instance is for development purpose
- `DB_SYSTEM_HOST` — set to `192.168.56.4` if using the development VM or alternatively point to your own database instance,
- `DB_SYSTEM_PORT`, `DB_SYSTEM_USERNAME`, `DB_SYSTEM_PASSWORD` — keep the default settings if using the VM or edit according to your own DB settings,
- `DB_FOODS_HOST` — set to `192.168.56.4` if using the development VM or alternatively point to your own database instance,
- `DB_FOODS_PORT`, `DB_FOODS_USERNAME`, `DB_FOODS_PASSWORD` — keep the default settings if using the VM or edit according to your own DB settings,
- `QUEUE_REDIS_HOST` — set to `192.168.56.4` if using the development VM or alternatively point to your own Redis instance.
- `APP_SECRET` - secret used to generate and verify admin logins. Please use a different secret.
- `DB_DEV_SYSTEM_URL` and `DB_DEV_FOODS_URL` - set the connection strings according to your VM `192.168.56.4`, or alternatively point to your own database instance. If you are using docker compose script provided, PostgresQL DB will be installed locally, using default port `5432`, user name `postgres` and password `postgres`. The connection string will become something like `postgres://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/{intake24 DB name}`
- `WEBPUSH_PUBLIC_KEY` and `WEBPUSH_PRIVATE_KEY` - check out [API server configuration](../config/api/services.md) to generate key pairs.

Check that the settings are correct by starting the server with `pnpm dev`.

:::tip
Add `DB_DEV_SYSTEM_DEBUG_QUERY_LIMIT=500` and `DB_DEV_FOODS_DEBUG_QUERY_LIMIT=500` to the API `.env` file to limit debug query char limit. It can prevent long queries from cluttering the console. The API server runs food indexing each time it starts so the console outputs can be quite a lot. The server does that for all locales in the food database, so for the DEV instance, you can also limit number of locales it runs against in `.env` by setting `APP_ENABLED_LOCALES = ["UK_V2_2022"]`.
:::

## API access

If you had your account already created in the databse snapshot you are using, please add your email in DBeaver `users` tables, then go to `apps/cli`, and run `pnpm cli:dev hash-password yourNewPassword`.

Grab the hash and put it manually into the `password_hash` column of the `user_passwords` table for your user record (find you user_id in users).
There will be a cli command available to create a whole new account without this manual hassle.

Commit message:

fix(deploy): reverse init:food-images, launch.json, sequelize_meta now go with schema SQL file, hard-wired source of ietf locale

apps/docs/developer/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting started

## Dev instance

Steps to getting a local instance running

- Setup the database
  - Method 1 (prefered): Execute Docker compose file `docker-compose.yml` to prepare PostgresQL and Redis instances, and map out port 5432 and 6379 respectively by default.
  - Method 2: Run Dev VM (download from S3 bucket - contact the Intake24 team), which maps out the database on 192.168.56.10:5432 (PostgreSQL). Start this VM.
- Obtain up-to-date database snapshots from the intake24 team and import them into a database by scripts or DB tools (e.g. DBeaver). Please check the guidance on [importing database snapshots with DBeaver](https://dbeaver.com/docs/wiki/Backup-Restore/).
- Local servers need to be run for `api`, `admin` and `survey` from each respective folder:
- To start `api` / `admin` / `survey`: `pnpm dev` for live reloads

### Steps to run locally

#### Prerequisites

- Node.js v22.12.0 or newer
- pnpm v9.x or newer
- Docker v29 or newer (for running PostgreSQL 17 and Redis 8 instances)
- 4vGB+ free disk space (Or 50GB+ free disk space including downloading and extracting food images and database snapshots)

#### 1. Git clone Intake24 project

```sh
git clone https://github.com/intake24/intake24.git
```

#### 2. Install node packages for the whole projects

On project root folder, run

```sh
pnpm install
```

#### 3. Spin up Redis and PostgreSQL instance using docker compose

On project root folder, run

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

#### 4. Initialise the CLI application

On project root folder, run below command to build the CLI application under `apps/cli` folder using development configuration

```sh
pnpm cli:dev
```

This will create `.env` file under `apps/cli` folder, and complete the initial setup for the CLI application. You can quite the process after the command finishes.

#### 5. Use CLI tools to create .env files for Intake24 API, Intake24 frontend (SPA), and Intake24 admin tool SPA applications, and populate system database

on project root folder, run below command

```sh
pnpm cli init:env
```

This will create `.env` files under `apps/api`, `apps/admin` and `apps/survey` folders, and populate the system database with default data. You can also use `-f` flag to force overwrite existing `.env` files if any.

```sh
pnpm cli init:db:system
```

This will populate the system database with default data only. Follow the prompts to set up the admin user account.

If the database snapshot versions are older than the codebase, you may need to run database migration scripts to `foods` and `system` databases by running below command under project root folder:

```sh
pnpm db:system:migrate
pnpm db:foods:migrate
```

For more information, please refer to [Database migrations](../overview/database.md#database-migrations).

#### 6. Start API server

On `apps/api` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The API server should be running on `http://localhost:3100` by default.

#### 7. Start Intake24 admin tool application

On `apps/admin` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The Intake24 admin tool application should be running on `http://localhost:8100` by default, and you can log in using the admin account created during step 5.

#### 8. Start Intake24 frontend (survey) application

On `apps/survey` folder, run

```sh
pnpm dev
```

The Intake24 frontend (survey) application should be running on `http://localhost:8200` by default.

#### 9. Download food images and place them in the correct folder

Food images are not included in the database snapshots. Run the following command to download and extract the images:

```sh
pnpm cli init:food-images https://storage.googleapis.com/intake24/images/intake24-images-MRC-LIVE-19112025.zip
```

If you have downloaded the image archive to local PC, you can extract to `apps/api/storage/public/images` directly.

:::warning
Please note that currently the image arcihive is quite large (~18GB) and the download may take significant time and disk space.

And to save space, the CLI will remove the download zip file once it is decompressed to the `FS_IMAGES`.
:::

For more information, please check [Download food images](../cli/init-food-images.md).

## Useful tools

- IDE for developing Node, Typescript, npm (Intake24 use `pnpm` as drop-in replacement of npm) and associated tooling (e.g. VS Code)
- Docker, a clean and resource-efficient way to run PostgreSQL and Redis servers locally.
- Virtual Box (v6.x minimum) for running database VM
- Database browser (e.g. DBeaver) for exploring/manipulating PostgreSQL DB.
- Redis

::: tip
Intake24 requires node.js version 16 or newer, please make sure to check your node.js version before continuing.
:::

Clone the [Intake24 version 4 repository on GitHub](https://github.com/intake24/intake24).

Follow the readme instructions in the root of the repository.

## Databases

Please contact the intake24 team for the latest development virtual machine. [Please also check the guidance on using the development virtual machine](https://docs.intake24.org/developer/vm).
Alternatively, you can obtain database snapshots and import them to a PostgreSQL (version 17 or newer) instance using database browser (e.g. DBeaver).

[Foods database public download link](https://storage.googleapis.com/intake24/snapshots/foods_snapshot.pgcustom)
[System database public download link](https://storage.googleapis.com/intake24/snapshots/system_snapshot.sql)

Please check the guidance on [importing database snapshots with DBeaver](https://dbeaver.com/docs/wiki/Backup-Restore/). While using the database snapshots, don't forget to set up your own Redis instance.

To install PostgresQL and Redis instanace using provided setup, go to `docker` folder to start containers in the background by:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

:::tip
The script also run DB script within `docker/init` folder, hence if you may need to grant execution right for the scripts inside this folder.
:::

Please also check the [guideline](/developer/docker) to configure or import database snapshot to PostgreSQL server created using docker.

## API server

Go to `api` and follow instructions in the readme file.

Copy the `.env-template` file to `.env` and change the following settings:

- `JWT_ACCESS_SECRET` — set to any string (security doesn't matter for development purposes), e.g. `verybigsecret`,
- `JWT_REFRESH_SECRET` — same as above but use a different secret,
- `DB_CONNECTION_SSL` - set to `false` for if the instance is for development purpose
- `DB_SYSTEM_HOST` — set to `192.168.56.4` if using the development VM or alternatively point to your own database instance,
- `DB_SYSTEM_PORT`, `DB_SYSTEM_USERNAME`, `DB_SYSTEM_PASSWORD` — keep the default settings if using the VM or edit according to your own DB settings,
- `DB_FOODS_HOST` — set to `192.168.56.4` if using the development VM or alternatively point to your own database instance,
- `DB_FOODS_PORT`, `DB_FOODS_USERNAME`, `DB_FOODS_PASSWORD` — keep the default settings if using the VM or edit according to your own DB settings,
- `QUEUE_REDIS_HOST` — set to `192.168.56.4` if using the development VM or alternatively point to your own Redis instance.
- `APP_SECRET` - secret used to generate and verify admin logins. Please use a different secret.
- `DB_DEV_SYSTEM_URL` and `DB_DEV_FOODS_URL` - set the connection strings according to your VM `192.168.56.4`, or alternatively point to your own database instance. If you are using docker compose script provided, PostgresQL DB will be installed locally, using default port `5432`, user name `postgres` and password `postgres`. The connection string will become something like `postgres://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/{intake24 DB name}`
- `WEBPUSH_PUBLIC_KEY` and `WEBPUSH_PRIVATE_KEY` - check out [API server configuration](../config/api/services.md) to generate key pairs.

Check that the settings are correct by starting the server with `pnpm dev`.

:::tip
Add `DB_DEV_SYSTEM_DEBUG_QUERY_LIMIT=500` and `DB_DEV_FOODS_DEBUG_QUERY_LIMIT=500` to the API `.env` file to limit debug query char limit. It can prevent long queries from cluttering the console. The API server runs food indexing each time it starts so the console outputs can be quite a lot. The server does that for all locales in the food database, so for the DEV instance, you can also limit number of locales it runs against in `.env` by setting `APP_ENABLED_LOCALES = ["UK_V2_2022"]`.
:::

## API access

If you had your account already created in the databse snapshot you are using, please add your email in DBeaver `users` tables, then go to `apps/cli`, and run `pnpm cli:dev hash-password yourNewPassword`.

Grab the hash and put it manually into the `password_hash` column of the `user_passwords` table for your user record (find you user_id in users).
There will be a cli command available to create a whole new account without this manual hassle.
